What is a DBMS?
---------------

A database management system (DBMS) is a software used to store and manage data. It guarantees the quality, durability, and confidentiality of information


RDBMS
-------------

RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System

RDBMS is the basis for SQL, and for all modern database systems such as MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, Oracle, MySQL, and Microsoft Access

The data in RDBMS is stored in database objects called tables. A table is a collection of related data entries and it consists of columns and rows


What is SQL?
-------------

Structured Query Language (SQL) is the standard language for data manipulation in a DBMS. In in simple words its used to talk to the data in a DBMS

SQL commands: 

DDL(Data Definition Language)      : Create, Alter, Drop, Truncate
DQL(Data Query Language)           : Select
DML(Data Manipulation Language)    : Insert, Delete, Update
DCL(Data Control Language)         : Grant, Revoke
TCL(Transaction Control Language)  : Commit, Rollback, Save point


https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/

MySQL - Server  : 3306
MySQL - Client  : commandline tool
MySQL workbench : GUI tool 

mysql -u username -p (Enter)

Create database:

	create database <database_name>

Change Database:

	use <database_name>

Create Table:
	
	create table product(pid int,pname varchar(100));



Constraints:
------------
Constraints are the rules enforced on the data columns of a table. These are used to limit the type of data that can go into a table. This ensures the accuracy and reliability of the data in the database
   
	1. Primary key
	2. Not null
	3. Unique
	4. Foreign key
	5. Default
	6. Check 

Constraints could be on :
	
	Table Level	
	Column Level:

Composite Primary key: 

    Composite key, or composite primary key, refers to cases where more than one column is used to specify the primary key of a table.


Numeric Data Type        : INT, FLOAT  

Date and Time Data Type  : DATE, DATETIME

String Data Types        : VARCHAR, CHAR


Import and Export Data
----------------------

Export:
	mysqldump -u username -p database_name > file.sql	
Import: 
	mysql -u username -p database_name < file.sql



Creating Tables:
	
	







